---
layout: post
title:  "The first day..."
date:   2019-05-15 11:10:27 +0200
author: Nathan
---

# Confinement is in progress... and so is this website.

The first day of paid outdoor work has come and gone… The years spent
out in the mountains and enjoying the countryside has finally paid off –
ha! It was never for the money in the past, but now it is a small part
of what the outdoor environment is for me. I’ve taken the decision to
step out into the working world and try and make what I can from it
while spending my time outdoors.

The Duke of Edinburgh award was I suppose the first time I really had
the opportunity to enjoy travelling through the outdoors independently.
Of course it was part of a team, but it felt like this was the first
chance in which we were left to organise and plan where we wanted to go,
be largely responsible for ourselves, and travel across large distances
self-supported. For those of us who enjoy the countryside, journey
through it, and get off the well worn path, a lot of the skills which
are gained through the D of E award become second nature. The decision
to cross a field or not, which land can be accessed and which shouldn’t,
and just how far can we travel and how high can we climb soon start to
become familiar. These decisions though are not simple, and going back
to work with D of E groups is a great way to understand again what it
was like when we all started enjoying the outdoors.

Although I’ve spent the last four or five years leading and organising
groups in the mountains at university, my first weekend with D of E
groups felt a little like a baptism of fire. 14 year olds are a very
different bunch to 18 – 25 year olds. Full of the excitement and energy
of youth, while yearning for the independence of adulthood, it makes for
an interesting time, but one which takes a bit of getting used to. This
was the school’s Bronze practice expedition, and I was the leader for
two groups of seven kids. The first day was a semi-supervised day in
which I walked alongside and between the two groups, helping them get to
grips with the micro-navigation through the countless fields of the
Chilterns, and encouraging working as a team. I left the teams to
themselves as much as possible and they both did remarkably well – good
pacing, and no serious navigational errors, and I was very impressed.

![Walking through the forest trees](/assets/img/forest_trees.jpg)
<figcaption><center>
The trees of the forest were a welcome relief, even if the number of
forestry tracks were slightly confusing…
</center></figcaption>

<br>

It was wonderful seeing the groups progress over the weekend, making the
same mistakes I remember making, and seeing their happiness of making it
to the next checkpoint where I waited for them. It also helped that the
weather was glorious. Bright sunshine and cool, springtime breezes are a
good mix for walking, and I’ve no doubt it will make them excited for
their upcoming assessed expedition.

As first experiences of working on D of E expeditions go, I couldn’t
have asked for more and now I’m just as excited for the next expedition
as I was when I was 14!