---
layout: post
title:  "Southern Sandstone Sun"
date:   2019-05-18 11:10:27 +0200
author: Nathan
---

# Confinement is in progress... and so is this website.

Unusually, I managed to get out on some rock while back home in East
Sussex. The sandstone outcrops of my home county have a similar feel to
the sandstone of the famous Fontainebleau – a friendly and encouraging
environment, and when it’s as sunny as it was on Wednesday afternoon,
absolute bliss! Joe and myself headed to the longest stretch of crags at
Harrison’s Rocks. Joe, an avid cyclist and all around exercise
enthusiast, was keen to get back out climbing again – the last time we
climbed together was eleven years ago! Back at Harrison’s Rocks over a
decade later, we quickly became re-familiarised with the slopey holds
and strange etiquette of top-ropes.

![Harrison's Rocks](/assets/img/harrisons_rocks_2.jpg)
<figcaption><center>
Joe leading the way back to the car after a beautiful evening in the sun.
</center></figcaption>
<br>

Southern Sandstone is quite possibly the sandiest of sandstone. As such,
British climbing ethics become even stricter: bouldering brushes,
leader-placed protection, climbing on damp rock, and lowering off are
all banned. The protection of the rock has to be of the upmost
importance. Just the rubbing of your hands on the rock soon displaces a
considerable amount of sand. The sandstone is protected by a thin,
weathered, solid outer layer which shields the underlying crumbly rock.
Just like gritstone however, as soon as this is barrier is broken,
damage soon speeds up.

![Sociable climbing](/assets/img/harrisons_rocks.jpg# right prop45)

With our new found morals and ethics we started getting stuck in – quite
literally. A decision to attempt “Sunshine Crack” was a rude start but
with a little jamming of arms and legs we got to grips with the rock.
Slowly but surely we made upward progress!

The chance to climb with Joe also gave me a great chance to go through
the process of instructing again. In a couple of weeks I have my RCI
(Rock Climbing Instructor) assessment. As part of this assessment I need
to be able to take those who have never climbed before out to single
pitch crags and arrange top rope setups. The afternoon proved to be
perfect practice – even if Joe wasn’t a complete novice!

After so long away from the Southern Sandstone I was reminded by just
how pleasant experience it is. The convenience, soft rock, sheltered
crags, and sun really made for a delightful afternoon. Credit should go
to the BMC for all the work they have done to preserve access to many of
these crags as well as the management of the trees. The cutting down of
trees below the crags looks drastic but has a couple of important
reasons: reducing the shade from the trees allows for improved drying of
the rock, meaning more climbing and limiting damage caused by impatient
climbers. The clearings also allow for native flora and fauna to
flourish – reaching up between the leafy ground, new saplings quickly
become reestablished. If you want any more information
[http://www.southernsandstoneclimbs.co.uk](http://www.
southernsandstoneclimbs.co.uk){:target="_blank"} is a good place to
check out.

The afternoon was swiftly followed by dinner at the local pub with a
welcome pint of Harvey’s Best to finish the evening perfectly. Thanks
Joe!

![Joe and I climbing](/assets/img/harrisons_rocks_3.jpg)
<figcaption><center>
Joe getting knee-deep into Sunshine Crack, and a very happy Nathan to be
climbing in the sun again.
</center></figcaption>
<br>




